From an individual academic perspective, the senior design project is about applying what I have learned throughout my time at UC and my 5 co-ops on this project. Along with that, a goal of mine is to continue to learn new things. With this project being in a field that I have limited experience in, I believe that I'll be able to do that. The project is essentially an AI tool that generates sprites (game characters) based on a user's description. The user would describe the sprite using natural language, and it is up to the AI tool to generate the sprite. My team and I want to ensure that our focus is on the machine learning aspect of the project, and not so much on the game development.

Throughout my time at UC, I've had multiple classes from the curriculum that have helped shape my experience. They have given me adequate breadth and depth into the field of Computer Science. In my first-year, taking Computer Science 1 (CS1021C) was the first time I worked with C++. Although I had some experience with Java from highschool, it was interesting to learn about a new object-oriented language and dive deeper into it than I did in highschool. Learning about Computer Systems (CS2011) in my second-year was also very intersting, because I had no experience with low level programming up until that point. A couple of semesters later, I took Operating Systems (EECE4029), which took that interest to the next level. Currently, I'm taking electives such as Deep Iearning and Intelligent Systems, which help me learn more about artifical intelligence and machine Learning, fields that I believe I have plenty more to learn about.

I've been fortunate to be able to apply what I've learned in an academic setting in my co-ops (and vice versa). Additionally, being on co-op gives me a chance to learn many non-technical skills that I would have not been able to learn about if I was solely in classes. My first rotation was at Copeland, as an IT co-op. I was able to work on some full stack web development as well, working with Visual Basic, ASP.NET, and SQL. For my second co-op, I was at Emerson Automation Solutions, as a Backend Software Engineering Intern, where I worked in C#. Following that, I was at GE Aerospace for my last three co-op rotations. I started off as a Backend Software Engineering Intern again, moved to a Data Science co-op role, and then worked there last summer as a Cloud Engineering intern. This allowed me to gain a wide range of experiences across multiple teams to see how the business functioned. At each of my co-ops, I was given a chance to present my work at the end of the semester in front of my team, adjacent teams, and even leadership at times. This gave me a chance to develop my soft skills, such as public speaking, building presentations, etc. 

The main motivation for this project is to be able to learn more about artifical intelligence and machine Learning. My experience in the field is limited. I believe that although it is very important to get some knowledge through academics, working on projects (whether personal or in a co-op) is a great way to learn. Hands-on experience on the field is a big reason why my team and I are interested in this project. We hope to use what we have learned throughout our various co-ops and apply that knowledge on the project. The same goes for what we learned through the UC curriculum as well.

I am motivated and excited to work on this project because I believe it'll give me a chance to have hands-on experience in artifical intelligence and machine learning. The preliminary approach to designing a solution will be to discuss different strategies with my team and advisor. One challenge I forsee is figuring out the best way to get started on the project. The expected results will be an AI tool that can generate game characters (or sprites) from text descriptions provided by the user. We will know we are done if the tool is able to accurately generate the sprite based on the user's description and if the sprite will be usable in a 2D platform game. With our advisor as our guide as well, it'll be useful to have his or her input on how we can improve the project and whether or not we are truly "done".
